W trwającym własnie procesie Rossa Ulbrichta odczytano wczoraj obszerne fragmenty jego pamiętnika. Założyciel Silk Road równie dobrze mógł od razu napisać akt oskarżenia. W świetle ujawnionych materiałów trudno sobie wyobrazić niski wyrok. W trakcie procesu okazało się, że na dysku był nie tylko pamiętnik, ale także lata logów TorChatu. Z uwagi na obszerną treść opublikowanych cytatów poniżej znajdziecie tłumaczenia jedynie najlepszych fragmentów oraz treść wszystkich oryginalnych wpisów. Jeśli ktoś ma ochotę przetłumaczyć całość, to zapraszamy do współpracy. Zacznijmy od najlepszego cytatu:  Grudzień 2011  Luty 2012  W rozmowie z jednym z moderatorów:  Tak oto Ross Ulbricht nieświadomie przepowiedział swoją przyszłość. Poniżej obiecana kolekcja oryginalnych cytatów. Niezwykły talent Rossa Ulbrichta Źródła: Ars Technica, Vice, Wired, Forbes, The Daily Dot.  I had to find a job quickly, so I turned to Craig’s List and found American Journal Experts. For the next six months, I edited scientific papers written by foreigners. It sucked. The hours were flexible, but it drained me. I hated working for someone else and trading my time for money with no investment in myself.  I went through a lot over the year in my personal relationships as well. I had mostly shut myself off from people because I felt ashamed of where my life was. I had left my promising career as a scientist to be an investment adviser and entrepreneur and came up empty handed. More and more my emotions and thoughts were ruling my life and my word was losing power. At some point I finally broke down and realized my love for people again, and started reaching out. Throughout the year I slowly re-cultivated my relationship with my word and started honoring it again. My relationship with Julia was pretty rocky throughout the year. We even broke up for about a month and half toward the end. I couldn’t even tell you now why it was a struggle, or why we broke up. On my side, I wasn’t communicating well at all. I would let little things build up until I got mad. We eventually got back together and even moved in together, and it has been amazingly good since. In 2011, I am creating a year of prosperity and power beyond what I have ever experienced before. Silk Road is going to become a phenomenon and at least one person will tell me about it, unknowing that I was its creator. Good Wagon Books will find its place and get to the point that it basically runs itself. Julia and I will be happy and living together. I have many friends I can count on who are powerful and connected.  The next couple of months, I sold about 10 lbs of shrooms through my site. Some orders were as small as a gram, and others were in the qp range. Before long, I completely sold out. Looking back on it, I maybe should have raised my prices more and stretched it out, but at least now I was all digital, no physical risk anymore. Before long, traffic started to build. People were taking notice, smart, interested people. Hackers. For the first several months, I handled all of the transactions by hand…. Between answering messages, processing transactions, and updating the codebase to fix the constant security holes, I had very little time left in the day, and I had a girlfriend at this time!  Most interestingly, two US senators came out against the site and against bitcoin. They made a big deal out of it and called for a shutdown of the site. I started to get into a bad state of mind. I was mentally taxed, and now I felt extremely vulnerable and scared. The US govt, my main enemy was aware of me and some of it’s members were calling for my destruction. This is the biggest force wielding organization on the planet… Most importantly, the market began it’s path to maturity. Vendors and buyers forged great relationships, more vendors came in to fill holes in the market, others competed and variety, customer service, and professionalism emerged. After making about $100k and up to a good $20-25k monthly, I decided it was time to bring in some hired guns to help me take the site to the next level.  vj: just thank fsm myself: fsm? vj: $deity myself: ahhh myself: i’ve been incredibly blessed. i was a hair’s breadth from going to jail before the site even launched.  myself: i might try recruiting at bitcointalk.org cimon: dude, really? myself: well, working for a criminal enterprise isn’t exactly enticing  myself: link please inigo: getting it now inigo: not sure where we stand on this … inigo: fentanyl has been used to assassinate people too myself: cyanide has a bad reputation myself: there are plenty of legitimate uses inigo: so we’re going to allow it? myself: its bad for image/PR myself: i think we’re going to allow it myself: its a substance and we want to err on the side of not restricting things inigo: this is the black market after all :) myself: it is, and we are bringing order and civility to it A jesli komuś mało, to polecamy pełną transkrypcję pierwszego dnia drugiego tygodnia oraz drugiego dnia drugiego tygodnia procesu.,Adam